Add Placement API topic (#3745)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/api/placement_api.md

---
type: docs
title: "Placement API reference"
linkTitle: "Placement API"
description: "Detailed documentation on the Placement API"
weight: 1200
---

Dapr has an HTTP API `/placement/state` for placement service that exposes placement table information. The API is exposed on the sidecar on the same port as the healthz. This is an unauthenticated endpoint, and is disabled by default. 

> You need to set `DAPR_PLACEMENT_METADATA_ENABLED` environment or `metadata-enabled` command line args to true to enable it. If you are using helm, set `dapr_placement.metadataEnabled` to true.

Reviewer: This need an update into the https://docs.dapr.io/reference/environment/ topic, with the Dapr sidecar as the target.

Reviewer 2: One more thing, the environment variable is for Dapr placement, so the target would be Dapr placement.

Author: Pushed this update - thanks!

> You need to set `DAPR_PLACEMENT_METADATA_ENABLED` environment or `metadata-enabled` command line args to true to enable it. If you are using helm, set `dapr_placement.metadataEnabled` to true.

Reviewer: This needs an update into the Env Variables doc topic

> You need to set `DAPR_PLACEMENT_METADATA_ENABLED` environment or `metadata-enabled` command line args to true to enable it. If you are using helm, set `dapr_placement.metadataEnabled` to true.

Reviewer: Actually this needs more detail. 
@Taction
1) Is this really just called "metadata-enabled" and not ""placement-metadata-enabled""
2) Also `metadata-enabled` needs to be added to the https://docs.dapr.io/reference/arguments-annotations-overview/ . When you say command line is this on daprd or the CLI

Reviewer 2: This is the environment or command line args for the `placement` binary not for daprd or cli, and this is supposed to only be used in self-host mode(In k8s mode, the helm value should be used). I've found this doc https://docs.dapr.io/operations/hosting/self-hosted/self-hosted-no-docker/#enable-actors  introduces how to run placement manually, maybe add a sub-section for supported  `arguments and environments` here.

Reviewer: I see this was not clear. I have made a suggestion below for an update. Please review

## HTTP Request

```
GET http://localhost:<healthzPort>/placement/state
```

## HTTP Response Codes

Code | Description
---- | -----------
200  | Placement tables information returned
500  | Placement could not return the placement tables information

## HTTP Response Body

**Placement tables API Response Object**

Name                   | Type                                                                  | Description
----                   | ----                                                                  | -----------
tableVersion           | int                                                                   | The placement table version
hostList               | [Actor Host Info](#actorhostinfo)[]                                   | A json array of registered actors host info.

<a id="actorhostinfo"></a>**Actor Host Info**

Name  | Type    | Description
----  | ----    | -----------
name  | string  | The host:port address of the actor.
appId | string  | app id.
actorTypes | json string array | List of actor types it hosts.
updatedAt | timestamp | Timestamp of the actor registered/updated.

## Examples

```shell
 curl localhost:8080/placement/state
```

```json
{

> 	"hostList": [{

Reviewer: Just replace this with the same changes from Taction, showing multiple actors

---
type: docs
title: "Placement API reference"
linkTitle: "Placement API"
description: "Detailed documentation on the Placement API"
weight: 1200
---

Dapr has an HTTP API `/placement/state` for placement service that exposes placement table information. The API is exposed on the sidecar on the same port as the healthz. This is an unauthenticated endpoint, and is disabled by default. 

> You need to set `DAPR_PLACEMENT_METADATA_ENABLED` environment or `metadata-enabled` command line args to true to enable it. If you are using helm, set `dapr_placement.metadataEnabled` to true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the placement metadata in self-hosted mode you can either set`DAPR_PLACEMENT_METADATA_ENABLED` environment variable or `metadata-enabled` command line args on the Placement service to `true` to. See [how to run the Placement service in self-hosted mode]({{< ref "self-hosted-no-docker/#enable-actors >}})
If you are using Helm for deployment of the Placement service on Kubernetes then to enable the placement metadata, set `dapr_placement.metadataEnabled` to `true`.
```
